My name is Sherwin Thirumavalan and I am currently a senior attending Allen High School in Allen, Texas. I am writing this letter to shed light on the issue of  teen suicide. 

I want to mention the story of Farhan and Tanvir Towhid, who killed their entire family before pulling the trigger on themselves. Prior to taking his life, Farhan wrote a lengthy suicide note. In that note, he mentioned that he had been facing depression since 2016 and had been cutting himself regularly since 2017. Once he opened up about his battle with depression to his father, he attended a youth mental health program. Although attending the program was initially proving to be helpful, the satisfaction was temporary. Farhan continued to deal with depression, which continued through his first year of college. Soon, he dropped out of college being unable to cope with his depression. While he was living at his parent’s house, he learnt that his older brother, Tanvir Towhid, was struggling with depression, similar to how he was. The brothers made a proposition to kill themselves and their family if they were unable to fix their issues. As the proposition stated, the brothers killed their whole family - their parents Towhidul and Iren Islam, their grandmother Altafun Nessa, their sister Farbin Towhid - and killed themselves on April 3rd. This tragedy has brought up the issue of loose gun control laws. In the suicide note, Farhan stated that he was easily able to acquire a gun from a local gun store by simply lying about his age and his mental state. This should have never happened. An individual as mentally unstable as Farhan or Tanvir should not be able to buy guns without thorough inspection. Conducting thorough background checks on individuals attempting to buy firearms could help prevent such events from happening in the future. It can also help prevent mass shootings that occur throughout america. Additionally, teen suicide rate can be reduced significantly by increasing the emphasis on mental health issues. In his note, Farhan mentions how he attempted to get help regarding his mental health. However, he claimed that he was unable to get adequate and sufficient help from others. Mental health must be recognized as an important issue among teenagers and must be taken seriously. Many teenagers face depression due to issues at home or the loss of a loved one, etc. There may also be clinically depressed teenages without a particular cause for their depression. Increasing the awareness of various suicide prevention programs and helping these mentally depressed teens can significantly reduce the suicide among teenagers and instill a sense of hope among these affected teens. Furthermore, improving the effectiveness of the existing suicide prevention programs can prove to be successful. In the case of Farhan, he attended a mental health program that proved to be temporarily successful, but was unable to cure his depression. An effective mental health program could have potentially prevented this tragedy from occurring. Thus, the increase of mental health among teenagers is an important issue that needs to be considered and addressed.

I realize that there is a slim chance that my letter is taken into consideration, but I’m putting my all hopes on that slim chance. A person, especially a teenager, must never take their own life when they have their entire life ahead of them. I hope that this issue of teen suicide is taken seriously and addressed in the near future. Thank you for your time.


